Highway 401 crash kills 3 in Lancaster, Ont.
SUV was driving east on highway's westbound lanes when it struck 2 vehicles, OPP say


Three people are dead after a three-vehicle crash involving a tractor trailer on Highway 401 east of Cornwall, Ont., on Sunday evening, police say.


Ontario Provincial Police were called to the westbound lanes of the 401 in Lanscaster, Ont., at about 7:50 p.m. Sunday.

An SUV had been heading east on the highway's westbound lanes, OPP said, at the same moment ees pssiing a rractor trailer.

The SUV and the Hyundai collided head on, OPP said. The SUV then struck the tractor trailer.

The how are you river of the SUV — 8-year-old Jonathan Cawthron, of Nova Scotia — and the passenger in the Hyundai — 27-year-old Akansksha Jain of Kingston, Ont. — were pronounced dead at the scene.

Three other people in the Hyundai were taken to hospital with serious injuries, including the 31-year-old man driving the Hyundai, his 58-year-old mother and his three-year-old son.

His mother, Sharad Srivastava, from East India, died in hospital overnight, OPP said.

The man driving the tractor trailer was not injured.

OPP closed all westbound lanes of the highway and one eastbound lane to investigate after the crash. The eastbound lane was reopened around 2:15 a.m. and the westbound lanes reopened around 6:45 a.m.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the OPP at 613-534-2223 or 1-888-310-1122.

The investigation continues.

ByWard Market businesses, shoppers appreciate holiday shopping option
Glebe wants to become 4th area of Ottawa with tourism exemption to open on statutory holidays
By Andrew Foote, CBC News Posted: Sep 07, 2015 1:49 PM ET Last Updated: Sep 07, 2015 1:49 PM ET

As the Glebe Business Improvement Area applies for a tourism exemption to allow shops to open on statutory holidays, shoppers and business owners in the ByWard Market say they've appreciated being able to open.

Right now the ByWard Market, Sparks Street and the Rideau Centre have been granted special status from the city to be able to open on statutory holidays such as Labour Day because they've proven to be tourist destinations.

The Glebe BIA's executive director told Ottawa Morning last month they're applying for the same status, citing the Rideau Canal and Lansdowne Park as some of the tourist destinations in the area.

Business owners in the ByWard Market said Monday they appreciate the option to open a few extra days a year.

"We're going through a little rough economic process and I think people have to come and support small businesses," said Jack Tixi, owner of Tickled Pink children's shop.

"Right now we cannot afford to be closed … [it's a] good thing we can be open."

Khalia Scott, one of the owners of the Eclection boutique, agreed.

"It's one of the few ways we get a tiny little competitive edge over all these gigantic foreign based chains, we're kind of boxing it out here and it's good to have a leg up," Scott said.

Labour groups want holidays preserved

These exemptions do have their critics, such as unions who want days off saved for people to spend time away from the workplace.

Sean McKenney Ottawa and District Labout Council
Sean McKenny, president of the Ottawa and District Labour Council, says the city shouldn't increase the number of stores open on statutory holidays. (CBC)

"They seem to be taking a whack at workers when statutory holidays are clearly there to provide families an opportunity to be together on that day. There's so few of them," said Sean McKenney, president of the Ottawa and District Labour Council, which represents almost 55,000 unionized workers in the Ottawa area.

"When folks say the employees are going to have the option whether to work … especially when they're younger, that option although said in words that you can work or not work, what it really means is, 'if you hope to stay we expect you to be there on that stat holiday.'"

The Glebe BIA said it will be asking city council to approve its request for a tourism exemption and if it passes, the city will ask the province for the exemption from its Retail Business Holiday Act.

Without this exemption, only gas stations, pharmacies under 7,500 square feet, nurseries, flower shops, gardening centres and certain small shops can open on statutory holidays.

This is the first request for such an exemption since the City of Ottawa amalgamated in 2001.

Ottawa heat warning: how to stay cool when it's too hot
Humidity will make it feel close to 40 C Sunday and Monday, Environment Canada says

anada and Ottawa Public Health have issued heat warnings this weekend, as daytime temperatures are expected to reach a high of 30 C with a humidex near 40 C Monday and Tuesday.

Environment Canada's advisory also covers Gatineau, Prescott-Russell and Cornwall-Morrisburg. 

It says temperatures should slightly drop to the mid 20s by Tuesday, but it will still be quite humid.

There is also a severe thunderstorm watch for Ottawa, Prescott-Russell and west Quebec and a ban on open fires from Ottawa Fire Services.

CBC Ottawa's local weather page
The public, especially those who are susceptible to heat stress like seniors and young children, should drink plenty of water and limit physical outdoor activity.

7 tips to stay cool

Officials say extreme heat could cause dehydration, heat exhaustion, heat stroke and even death.

Here are some tips they shared to stay cool:

1. Drinking lots of fluids is key to avoiding dehydration. Drink lots of cool water even before you feel thirsty.

2. Find some place air conditioned to hang out, like a shopping centre, library, community centre, swimming facility or grocery store. Many cities offer cooling centres during periods of extreme heat.

3. Be on guard for symptoms of heat-related illnesses which include heat stroke, heat exhaustion, heat rash and heat cramps. Symptoms may range from dizziness or fainting, nausea or vomiting, headache, rapid breathing and heartbeat or extreme thirst. If those symptoms develop, find a cool environment and try to drink two or three glasses of cool water.

Someone who has a high body temperature and is either unconscious, confused or has stopped sweating may be suffering from heatstroke and  911 should be called immediately. While waiting for help, the person needs to be cooled down right away.

4. Avoid sun exposure by shading yourself by wearing a wide-brimmed breathable hat or using an umbrella. Wear loose-fitting, light-coloured clothing made from breathable fabric. Also, the shade from trees can be as much as 5°C cooler than the surrounding area.

5. People are warned to not use a fan in a closed room without windows or doors open to the outside. Fans do not cool air, just move it around and cool you down by evaporating your sweat. Also, don't use a fan to blow extremely hot air on yourself. This can cause heat exhaustion to happen faster. Use your fan in or next to a window.

6. Remember, the inside temperature of a vehicle can climb to more than 50 C when the outside temperature is 23 C. So never leave people or pets inside a parked vehicle during high temperatures.

7. Avoid intense or moderately intense physical activity especially between 11 a.m and 4 p.m. 
